---
type: post
title: What Pleases God
author: Mamai
date: 2020-04-25T13:00:00.000Z
image: /assets/04252020.jpg
slug: what-pleases-god
---

There are three questions I want us to ask ourselves today:

- Can we please God?
- How can we please God?
- What pleases God?

The Bible answers us by the following:

> "Those who are in the realm of the flesh cannot please God." **~ Romans 8:8 (NIV)**

> "That’s why those who are still under the control of their sinful nature can never please God." **~ Romans 8:8 (NLT)**

> "Those who are in the flesh cannot please God." **~ Romans 8:8 (ESV)**

#### So we make it our goal to please Him, whether we are at home in the body or away from it. _~ 2 Corinthians 5:9_

And **WITHOUT FAITH IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO PLEASE GOD**, because anyone who comes to Him must believe that He exists and that He rewards those who earnestly seek Him. _(Hebrews 11:6)_

> "For the LORD takes delight in his people; he crowns the humble with victory." **~ Psalm 149:4**

#### _FAITH is active and lived out rather than a matter of mere belief._

Below are six points we shall remember to live a life pleasing to the Lord.

## RIGHTEOUSNESS PLEASES GOD

> "Do what is right and fair; that pleases the LORD more than bringing him sacrifices." **~ Proverbs 21:3**

> "Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God." **~ Hebrews 13:16**

> "for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure." **~ Philippians 2:13**

We must always strive for righteousness while also keeping in mind that we are made righteous through our Savior, Jesus Christ.

## STAYING IN LIGHT PLEASES GOD

> "For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Live as children of light (for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness and truth) and find out what pleases the Lord." **~ Ephesians 5:8-10**

> "Obey them not only to win their favor when their eye is on you, but as slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from your heart." **~ Ephesians 6:6**

## OBEDIENCE PLEASES GOD

> "But Samuel replied, “What is more pleasing to the LORD: your burnt offerings and sacrifices or your obedience to his voice? Listen! Obedience is better than sacrifice, and submission is better than offering the fat of rams." **~ 1 Samuel 15:22**

Something to ponder and think about:

> #### _"Delayed obedience is disobedience."_

## BEING FILLED WITH THE SPIRIT PLEASES GOD

> "For this reason, since the day we heard about you, we have not stopped praying for you. We continually ask God to fill you with the knowledge of his will through all the wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives, so that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and please him in every way: bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God," **~ Colossians 1:9-10**

- Being filled with the Spirit means speaking of God's Word boldly
- "bearing fruit in every good work" -- fruits of the Holy Spirit
- Having JOY given by the Holy Spirit -- life of Paul

## GOD IS PLEASED IN OUR BROKENNESS

> "You do not delight in sacrifice, or I would bring it;
> you do not take pleasure in burnt offerings.
> My sacrifice, O God, is broken spirit;
> a broken and contrite heart
> you, God, will not despise."
> **~ Psalm 51:16:17**

- Our brokenness makes us rely on Him.
- Our brokenness reveals our need for God.
- The Lord is our HOPE.

> "but the LORD takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his steadfast love."
> **~ Psalm 147:11**

#### _"When our hope is in God, He is well pleased"_

## LOVE PLEASES GOD

> And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. **~ Ephesians 5:2**

### Reflection

On these six ways to please God, which among them are you most challenged to do? What are you doing about it?
