---
type: post
title: A Man Just Like Me
author: Jedi
date: 2020-04-18T13:00:38.147Z
image: /assets/04182020.jpg
slug: a-man-just-like-me
---

Below are three points we get from Elijah's life as he prayed and obeyed God in the different situations God placed him to be in. We get to realize how prayerful, obedient and faithful Elijah is. But, he is just a man not far from us. Hence, we can also be as he is.

## 1) Elijah’s powerful prayer

### Prayer for the rain to stop and resume

> Now Elijah the Tishbite, of Tishbe in Gilead, said to Ahab, “As the Lord, the God of Israel, lives, before whom I stand, there shall be neither dew nor rain these years, except by my word.”
> 1 Kings 17:1

### Prayer for the sick boy

> Then he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried to the Lord, “O Lord my God, let this child's life come into him again.” And the Lord listened to the voice of Elijah. And the life of the child came into him again, and he revived.
> 1 Kings 17:17-24

### Prayer for fire

> Then the fire of the Lord fell and consumed the burnt offering and the wood and the stones and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench. And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and said, “The Lord, he is God; the Lord, he is God.”
> 1 Kings 18:38-39

## "If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you."

As it is said in John 15:7, the Lord shall give us the answers to our prayers as we abide in Him. Surely, Elijah abided in God. Thus, He answered Elijah’s prayers.

## 2) Elijah’s Faith

### Go to Zarephath

In the midst of a drought, the Lord commanded Elijah to **depart and hide himself in Cherith** (1 Kings 17:3). Elijah went and lived there and when the brook has dried up, the Lord then commanded him to **go to Zarephath** and he, again, without question, obeyed.

> Then the word of the Lord came to him, 9 “Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow there to feed you.” 10 So he arose and went to Zarephath.
> 1 Kings 17:9-10

### Go present yourself to Ahab

> After many days the word of the Lord came to Elijah, in the third year, saying, “Go, show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth.” 2 So Elijah went to show himself to Ahab.
> 1 Kings 18:1-2

## "Walk in obedience to all that the Lord your God commanded you, so that you may live and prosper and prolong your days in the land that you will possess."

Whatever God wanted Elijah to do, he did. **Without a doubt, without second guessing.** It is easy to do what God wants us to do if it is what we want to do, but not what we don’t want to do. **We need Elijah’s faith and level of trusting God.** As it is said in Deuteronomy 5:33, let us walk in obedience to all that the Lord has commanded us.

## 3) Elijah listened really well to God

In 1 Kings 19, the Lord spoke to Elijah in a **still, small voice**. Elijah did not miss what God had to say to him. He listened.

> And after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire the sound of a low whisper.
> 1 Kings 19:12

I think I can miss God’s voice. Maybe I need God to use a loud, booming voice when He wants to talk to me, not a whisper. Or maybe we did hear it, but we just ignored.

_What if God whispered to us and we missed it? Isn’t a whisper from God as important as a loud voice from Him? If we let the distractions of life get between us and God, we might miss the whisper._

> Blessed are those who hear the word of God and obey it.
> Luke 11:28

> Do not merely listen to the word, and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says.
> James 1:22

## Conclusion: James 5:13-18

### Even as we are

The Amplified version of the Bible says Elijah was a man with a nature like ours; **“with the same physical, mental, and spiritual limitations and shortcomings,”** _(James 5:17)_ We can do **everything** and **anything** that God asks us to do. We have the same power Elijah had.

### The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working.

Let's be inspired not just to be as obedient as Elijah, but as prayerful as He is. The more we talk to God, the more we can distinguish His voice. Our prayer is working.
