---
type: post
title: Fear of the Lord
author: Navs
date: 2020-06-13T14:19:00.000Z
image: /assets/06132020.jpg
slug: fear-of-the-lord
---
> ### “The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.” ~ Proverbs 9:10

The proverb tells us to fear the Lord, but what does it really mean to fear God? To understand this better, let us look at the definition of fear.

The dictionary definition of the word “fear” is an unpleasant emotion caused by the belief that someone or something is dangerous, likely to cause pain, or a threat. It also means to be afraid of someone or something. Is this what the verse means, for us to be afraid of the Lord? Let us look at it on a deeper level. Let’s look at the Hebrew translation of the word fear.

In Hebrew, there are a few terms that could mean fear. 

## Pahhad
- To tremble or to shake

> *"Fear (pahhad - noun)) came upon me, and trembling, and caused all my bones to shake (pahhad - verb)."* **~ Job 4:14**

## Yara
- The literal concrete meaning of yara is a "flowing of the gut," which can be applied to "fear" or "reverence".

> *"And he said, I heard your voice in the garden and I feared (yarah) because I was naked and I hid myself."* **~ Genesis 3:10**

> *"You will revere (yarah) Yahweh your Elohiym and you will serve him and in his name you will swear."* **~ Deuteronomy 6:13**

## Yirah
- A reverential awe at the glory of God’s presence

> *"The fear (yirah) of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding."* **~ Proverbs 9:10**

### When Proverbs 9:10 tells us to fear the Lord, it is actually telling us to revere God in a way that we are always in awe of His glorious presence.

## Why should we have fear of the Lord?

###  It is the beginning of wisdom
- We define wisdom as having good or sound judgment. It is also knowing what is right from wrong. The clearer our judgment is and the easier it is for us to decipher right from wrong, the easier for us to live a righteous life.

### It is the beginning of knowledge
- We define knowledge as knowing of facts, information and skills acquired through experiences or education. In a biblical sense, fear of the Lord is the start of getting to know Christ more. It is the first step to being more Christ-like.

> *"The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction."* **~ Proverbs 1:7**

### It is Man’s Duty
- We are created to glorify and exalt God, to revere and to exemplify fear of the Lord.

> *"The end of the matter; all has been heard. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man."* **~ Ecclesiastes 12:13**

## How do we show Fear of the Lord?

### Pray and Honor His name
Prayer is one way to show our reverence to God, to show that we seek Him and we exalt him.

> *"Pray then like this: 'Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name.'"*
**~ Matthew 6:9**

> *"but in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you; yet do it with gentleness and respect,"* **~ 1 Peter 3:15**

### Live Righteously

Our actions should reflect the awe that we have when we are in the Lord’s presence and that is why we should live lives worthy to be living sacrifices.

> *"For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people, training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,"* **~ Titus 2:11-12**

### Obey and Submit
Obedience to His will and total submission to His Lordship is a concrete expression of our fear of the Lord.

> *"As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written, 'You shall be holy, for I am holy.'"* **~ 1 Peter 1:14-16**

> *"Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure."* **~ Philippians 2:12-13**

## Points to Ponder (P2P)
- What are practical, everyday actions we can do to show our fear of God?
- How can misinterpretation of “Fear of the Lord” be harmful to Christians?








