---
type: post
title: Our God is greater
author: jodie
date: 2020-05-28T10:03:44.446Z
image: /assets/05232020.jpg
slug: our-god-is-greater
---
Great is an important word. We can use it in five different ways: 

## Great
- To talk about something unusually large in size:
> “A great earthquake shook the city.”
- About a large number: 
> “Great crowd filled the stadium.”
- Describes an unusual power of intensity: 
> “she has experienced great pain.”
- It can refer to something that is especially good or wonderful: 
> “He is a great player.”
- Or something in extreme degree:
> “For a long time, we have been great friends.”

Not only is the word great flexible, but it is also a **powerful** word. When we talk about God, we use the word great to describe His infinity-- His all-powerful, all-present and all-knowing identity.

God’s greatness was seen in the life of King David. A humble shepherd, a gifted musician, giant slayer, conqueror and a chosen King. David’s life was a portrait of success and failure, and the biblical record highlights the fact that David was far from perfect. But what made David a cut above the rest was that his heart was pointed toward God. He had a deep desire to follow God’s will and do what God wanted him to do. *He was a man after God’s own heart.*

Throughout his long journey, David was always translating his daily life experiences into songs, poems, and prayers of faith and praise. No matter which part of David’s life you study you find him seeking God, praising God, crying to God, and consulting God. As a man after God’s own heart, David is a role model for all of us.

Let us look at **Psalm 139** and consider the following truths David told us about God’s greatness. 

## 3 TRUTHS ABOUT GOD’S GREATNESS

## God’s work is marvelous.

> “I praise You, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are Your works, and I know this very well.” **~ Psalms 139:14**
	
The Lord who is holy, good and just, also sustains and governs and brings all things to pass from the creation of the cosmos to the functioning of our cells in our bodies. 

God operates at full power. He brings all things to happen, even the smallest detail or instance in and around you. As you go through your day and notice His works in your life, why not pause to worship Him and actually articulate the fact that He can do anything? Learning to praise the Lord on a daily basis keeps our hearts soft. 

### Questions:
- What was something that made you praise God today?
- Have you ever praised God for something unwanted that happened to you?

No matter the circumstances you find yourself in, no matter how difficult the journey has been so far, no matter how confused or hurt you might be – praise Him – because it’s through praising Him we are reminded of what He has done and will do in our lives.

## God’s workmanship is meticulous.
> "For You formed my inward parts; You covered me in my mother’s womb. I praise You, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are Your works, and I know this very well." **~ Psalms 139:13-14 **

It is interesting that of all the examples in creation David could have used to show how great God is, he did not go to the stars or the heavens. Rather, he pointed inward to the dark womb holding a developing child. 

It is amazing how each part of our body becomes one and work together perfectly. God made each part carefully and precisely. Being fearfully and wonderfully made means God intimately knows every part of you. The Creator and Lord knows the hairs on our head and has such detailed and precise knowledge of our lives down to the very nanosecond of when we will be born, live, and die.

> "My frame was not hidden from You when I was made in secret, when I was woven together in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed body; all my days were written in Your book and ordained for me before one of them came to be." **~ Psalms 139:15-16 **

### Questions:
- Do you have any body parts you wished to improve? 

A lot of people in our culture are not really happy with their body, but David would say that you are marvelous. And you are the crown of God's creative genius. God has been superintending your development since those early stages, and His care for you is not going to stop now.

## God’s wisdom is matchless

> "How precious to me are Your thoughts, O God, how vast is their sum! If I were to count them, they would outnumber the rains of sand; and when I awake, I am still with You." **~ Psalms 139:17-18 **

What stirred David more than his knowledge of God was God's intimate knowledge of and care for him. He is all-knowing and all-present. There is nowhere in the universe to run away from the knowledge of the Lord.

## WHAT THESE TRUTHS CAN DO FOR US?

### 1. They produce a sense of purpose.
Knowing that this incredible God superintended our development and watched over us should give us a purpose nothing and nobody else can supply.

### 2. Fill us with faith.
These truths made us remember how almighty and great God is. It is a refresher about the awesomeness and magnitude of God. Therefore, strengthens our intimate relationship and trust every bit of our life to Him.

### 3. Give a sense of responsibility
Knowing that an all-powerful, all-knowing and all-present God has a meticulously and marvelously laid out plan and purpose for me makes me want to understand what His will is for my life and walk in it every day.

## Reflections:
- No matter what, who, where, or when, our God is greater.
- God is big enough to take care of anything and everything in your life.
- I pray that we would live our days with confidence in Him not because of anything we bring to the table but because how great and mighty our God is.


